# Sayout - Clone
### Welcome to the full-on tutorial guide on how you can make an anonymous messaging service by yourself!

### In the last part, we have created a login form and an endpoint. This is a sub-part of the last part. Now, we will be setting up our database.

---

## MongoDB
### MongoDB is a NoSQL database. It is a document-oriented database. It is a database that stores data in JSON format.
### To use MongoDB, we first need to create a new database.

### To create a MongoDB Database, Firstly, go to [The MongoDB Website](https://www.mongodb.com/) and log in to your account (Create one if you don't own one).
### [Read MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/getting-started/) and follow it till step 4.
### Now, copy your `connection string`. We will use it later on.

---

## MongoDB with Javascript (Mongoose)
### To use mongodb in javascript, we would need to download an npm package called `mongoose`. We have already downloaded that at the start of this project.
### Go to the `server.ts` file and write the code in it:
```ts
import mongoose from 'mongoose'
mongoose.connect('your mongodb connection string here')
```
### You mongodb connection string would look something like:
```txt
mongodb+srv://<your_user_name>:<password>@<cluster_name>mongodb.net/<db_name>?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

---

## Creating a model
### Models are the way to interact with the database using mongodb. To create a model, we would first create a `model.ts` file in our `src` folder.
### In the `model.ts` file, write the following code:
```ts
// Importing the 'mongoose' package
import mongoose from 'mongoose'

// Create a typescript interface for the model
interface IUser {
    username: string
    password: string
    msgs: string[]
}

// Create a schema for the model
const schema = new mongoose.Schema({
    username: String,
    password: String,
    msgs: [String]
})

// Create a model from the schema & interface
const model = mongoose.model<IUser>('User', schema)
// Export the model
export default model
```

### We have created the model. Now, we are ready to import it into our `server.ts` file.
```ts
import model from './model'
```
### Now we can use the `model.findOne({...})` method which we dicussed in the last page.

---

## Read Previous: [Login System](./05_login.md)
## Read Next: [Creating the Register Form](./06_register.md)

---